Docs: Restructure ioping page (#12738)
netdata/netdata: collectors/ioping.plugin/README.md

<!--
title: "ioping.plugin"
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/netdata/netdata/edit/master/collectors/ioping.plugin/README.md
description: "Netdata's ioping plugin allows you to measure your disk latency."
-->

# ioping.plugin

The ioping plugin supports monitoring latency for any number of directories/files/devices, by pinging them with `ioping`.
When your disks don't respond in the time you defined in `ioping.conf`, the plugin raises an alert (`ioping_disk_latency`).

The collector is enabled if Netdata detects that you have `ioping` installed. Otherwise, it is disabled. 

## Prerequisites

> To use this plugin, you need to install `ioping`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this plugin, you need to install [ioping](https://github.com/koct9i/ioping#ioping).
```

Took libery to make awesome more awesome 😄

Author: Thanks, that's awesome!

## Installing ioping

You can install `ioping` using the plugin.
The following command will download, build and install the correct `ioping` version as `/usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d/ioping`.

To install `ioping`, run:

   ```sh
   /usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d/ioping.plugin install
   ```

>    Once `ioping` is installed, Netdata will automatically start collecting disk latency data.

Reviewer: After installing we need:

- configure "destination".
- restart netdata service.

Author: Configuration is covered in the next sections, but let @DShreve2 know if there is info missing.

Reviewer: I answered to

> Line 28: Do I need to restart Netdata so the change comes into effect?

>    Once `ioping` is installed, Netdata will automatically start collecting disk latency data.

Author: ```suggestion
   Once `ioping` is installed, you need to [restart Netdata](https://learn.netdata.cloud/docs/configure/start-stop-restart) so the new collector is recognized. 
```

> Note: If you set up Netdata using a different environment path than the default (`/etc/netdata/.environment`), use the option `-e` to indicate where the Netdata environment file is installed.

## Configuring ioping.plugin

Netdata ships each plugin and collector with a default configuration. To determine whether you need to make changes, check the [default configuration for `ioping.conf`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/netdata/netdata/master/health/health.d/ioping.conf).

To make changes to the ioping.plugin configuration: 

1. Navigate to the [Netdata config directory](/docs/configure/nodes#the-netdata-config-directory):

   ```bash
   cd /etc/netdata
   ``` 

2. Use the [`edit-config`](/docs/configure/nodes#use-edit-config-to-edit-configuration-files) script to edit `ioping.conf`.

   ```bash
   sudo ./edit-config ioping.conf
   ```
 ### Example

```sh
# Uncomment the following line

> ioping="/usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d/ioping"

Reviewer: Let's remove the line. The [default value](https://github.com/netdata/netdata/blob/31c4623cdf062b29675b612391d77b2f7f572a41/collectors/ioping.plugin/ioping.plugin.in#L163) is correct regardless of the install prefix.

Author: Thanks for the info.

> ioping="/usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d/ioping"

Author: ```suggestion
```

To set up multiple ioping plugins:

1. Open a new terminal and change into the configuration directory.

   ```bash
   cd /etc/netdata
   ```

2. Copy the original ioping configuration file. You can name the file any name you like.

   ```bash
   cp ioping.conf ioping2.conf
   ```

3. Edit `ioping2.conf` and set the settings and the destination you need for the second instance.

4. To complete the next steps, you need change to the superuser.

   ```bash
   sudo su
   ```

5. Change into the plugins directory.

   ```bash
   cd /usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d
   ```

6. Create a soft link to connect the original ioping plugin to new plugin file. Make sure the plugin and the configuration file have the same name (in our example "ioping2").

   ```bash
   ln -s ioping.plugin ioping2.plugin
   ```

   Netdata will detect the new plugin and start it.

## Metrics and Alerts produced by this collector

| Chart  | Metrics        | Alert                                                                             |
| ------ | -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | ioping | ioping.latency | [ioping_disk_latency](https://community.netdata.cloud/t/ioping-disk-latency/2120) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| read_latency | ioping.latency | [ioping_disk_latency](https://community.netdata.cloud/t/ioping-disk-latency/2120) |
```

I am not sure what "chart" is, but "read_latency" is closer to the truth.

Reviewer: > [ioping_disk_latency](https://community.netdata.cloud/t/ioping-disk-latency/2120)

I think we need 2 links:
 - [conf](https://github.com/netdata/netdata/blob/master/health/health.d/ioping.conf)
 - [troubleshoot](https://community.netdata.cloud/t/ioping-disk-latency/2120)
